# REGEX - 22 to 33

With [FreeCodeCamp](https://freecodecamp.org)

## 23) Match Whitespace

- The challenges so far have covered matching letters of the alphabet and numbers. You can also match the whitespace or spaces between letters.

- You can search for whitespace using \s, which is a lowercase s. This pattern not only matches whitespace, but also carriage return, tab, form feed, and new line characters. You can think of it as similar to the character class [ \r\t\f\n\v].

```js
let whiteSpace = "Whitespace. Whitespace everywhere!";
let spaceRegex = /\s/g;
whiteSpace.match(spaceRegex);
//This match call would return [" ", " "]
```

## 24) Match Non-Whitespace Characters

- You learned about searching for whitespace using \s, with a lowercase s. You can also search for everything except whitespace.

- Search for non-whitespace using \S, which is an uppercase s. This pattern will not match whitespace, carriage return, tab, form feed, and new line characters. You can think of it being similar to the character class [^ \r\t\f\n\v].

```js
let whiteSpace = "Whitespace. Whitespace everywhere!";
let nonSpaceRegex = /\S/g;
whiteSpace.match(nonSpaceRegex).length;
//The value returned by the .length method would be 32
```

## 25) Specify Upper and Lower Number of Matches

- Recall that you use the plus sign + to look for one or more characters and the asterisk \* to look for zero or more characters. These are convenient but sometimes you want to match a certain range of patterns.

- You can specify the lower and upper number of patterns with quantity specifiers. Quantity specifiers are used with curly brackets ({ and }). You put two numbers between the curly brackets - for the lower and upper number of patterns.

- For example, to match only the letter a appearing between 3 and 5 times in the string ah, your regex would be /a{3,5}h/.

```js
let A4 = "aaaah";
let A2 = "aah";
let multipleA = /a{3,5}h/;
multipleA.test(A4);
multipleA.test(A2);
//The first test call would return true, while the second would return false.
```

## 26) Specify Only the Lower Number of Matches

- You can specify the lower and upper number of patterns with quantity specifiers using curly brackets. Sometimes you only want to specify the lower number of patterns with no upper limit.

- To only specify the lower number of patterns, keep the first number followed by a comma.

- For example, to match only the string hah with the letter a appearing at least 3 times, your regex would be /ha{3,}h/.

```js
let A4 = "haaaah";
let A2 = "haah";
let A100 = "h" + "a".repeat(100) + "h";
let multipleA = /ha{3,}h/;
multipleA.test(A4);
multipleA.test(A2);
multipleA.test(A100);
//In order, the three test calls would return true, false, and true.
```

## 27) Specify Exact Number of Matches

- You can specify the lower and upper number of patterns with quantity specifiers using curly brackets. Sometimes you only want a specific number of matches.

- To specify a certain number of patterns, just have that one number between the curly brackets.

- For example, to match only the word hah with the letter a 3 times, your regex would be /ha{3}h/.

```js
let A4 = "haaaah";
let A3 = "haaah";
let A100 = "h" + "a".repeat(100) + "h";
let multipleHA = /ha{3}h/;
multipleHA.test(A4);
multipleHA.test(A3);
multipleHA.test(A100);
//In order, the three test calls would return false, true, and false.
```

## 28) Check for All or None

- Sometimes the patterns you want to search for may have parts of it that may or may not exist. However, it may be important to check for them nonetheless.

- You can specify the possible existence of an element with a question mark, ?. This checks for zero or one of the preceding element. You can think of this symbol as saying the previous element is optional.

- For example, there are slight differences in American and British English and you can use the question mark to match both spellings.

```js
let american = "color";
let british = "colour";
let rainbowRegex = /colou?r/;
rainbowRegex.test(american);
rainbowRegex.test(british);
//Both uses of the test method would return true.
```

## 29) Positive and Negative Lookahead

- Lookaheads are patterns that tell JavaScript to look-ahead in your string to check for patterns further along. This can be useful when you want to search for multiple patterns over the same string.

- There are two kinds of lookaheads: positive lookahead and negative lookahead.

- A positive lookahead will look to make sure the element in the search pattern is there, but won't actually match it. A positive lookahead is used as (?=...) where the ... is the required part that is not matched.

- On the other hand, a negative lookahead will look to make sure the element in the search pattern is not there. A negative lookahead is used as (?!...) where the ... is the pattern that you do not want to be there. The rest of the pattern is returned if the negative lookahead part is not present.

- Lookaheads are a bit confusing but some examples will help.

```js
let quit = "qu";
let noquit = "qt";
let quRegex = /q(?=u)/;
let qRegex = /q(?!u)/;
quit.match(quRegex);
noquit.match(qRegex);
//Both of these match calls would return ["q"].
```

- A more practical use of lookaheads is to check two or more patterns in one string. Here is a (naively) simple password checker that looks for between 3 and 6 characters and at least one number:

```js
let password = "abc123";
let checkPass = /(?=\w{3,6})(?=\D*\d)/;
checkPass.test(password);
```

## 30) Check For Mixed Grouping of Characters

- Sometimes we want to check for groups of characters using a Regular Expression and to achieve that we use parentheses ().

- If you want to find either Penguin or Pumpkin in a string, you can use the following Regular Expression: /P(engu|umpk)in/g

- Then check whether the desired string groups are in the test string by using the test() method.

```js
let testStr = "Pumpkin";
let testRegex = /P(engu|umpk)in/;
testRegex.test(testStr);
//The test method here would return true.
```

## 31) Reuse Patterns Using Capture Groups

- Say you want to match a word that occurs multiple times like below.

```js
let repeatStr = "row row row your boat";
```

- You could use /row row row/, but what if you don't know the specific word repeated? Capture groups can be used to find repeated substrings.

- Capture groups are constructed by enclosing the regex pattern to be captured in parentheses. In this case, the goal is to capture a word consisting of alphanumeric characters so the capture group will be \w+ enclosed by parentheses: /(\w+)/.

- The substring matched by the group is saved to a temporary "variable", which can be accessed within the same regex using a backslash and the number of the capture group (e.g. \1). Capture groups are automatically numbered by the position of their opening parentheses (left to right), starting at 1.

- The example below matches a word that occurs thrice separated by spaces:

```js
let repeatRegex = /(\w+) \1 \1/;
repeatRegex.test(repeatStr); // Returns true
repeatStr.match(repeatRegex); // Returns ["row row row", "row"]
//Using the .match() method on a string will return an array with the matched substring, along with its captured groups.
```

## 32) Use Capture Groups to Search and Replace

- Searching is useful. However, you can make searching even more powerful when it also changes (or replaces) the text you match.

- You can search and replace text in a string using .replace() on a string. The inputs for .replace() is first the regex pattern you want to search for. The second parameter is the string to replace the match or a function to do something.

```js
let wrongText = "The sky is silver.";
let silverRegex = /silver/;
wrongText.replace(silverRegex, "blue");
//The replace call would return the string The sky is blue..
```

- You can also access capture groups in the replacement string with dollar signs ($).

```js
"Code Camp".replace(/(\w+)\s(\w+)/, "$2 $1");
```

- The replace call would return the string Camp Code

## 33) Remove Whitespace from Start and End

- Sometimes whitespace characters around strings are not wanted but are there. Typical processing of strings is to remove the whitespace at the start and end of it.

- Write a regex and use the appropriate string methods to remove whitespace at the beginning and end of strings.

```js
let hello = "   Hello, World!  ";
let wsRegex = /^\s+|\s+$/g; // Change this line
let result = hello.replace(wsRegex, ""); // Change this lin
```

`Note: The String.prototype.trim() method would work here, but you'll need to complete this challenge using regular expressions.`
