# ES6 -  11 to 20  #
With [FreeCodeCamp](https://freecodecamp.org)
 
## 11) Use Destructuring Assignment to Extract Values from Objects ##

- Destructuring assignment is special syntax introduced in ES6, for neatly assigning values taken directly from an object.

- Consider the following ES5 code:

```js
const user = { name: 'John Doe', age: 34 };

const name = user.name;
const age = user.age;
//name would have a value of the string John Doe, and age would have the number 34.

```

- Here's an equivalent assignment statement using the ES6 destructuring syntax:
```js
const { name, age } = user;
//Again, name would have a value of the string John Doe, and age would have the number 34.

```

- Here, the name and age variables will be created and assigned the values of their respective values from the user object. You can see how much cleaner this is.

- You can extract as many or few values from the object as you want.

## 12) Use Destructuring Assignment to Assign Variables from Objects ##

- Destructuring allows you to assign a new variable name when extracting values. You can do this by putting the new name after a colon when assigning the value.

- Using the same object from the last example:

```js

const user = { name: 'John Doe', age: 34 };

```
Here's how you can give new variable names in the assignment:

```js

const { name: userName, age: userAge } = user;

```
- You may read it as "get the value of user.name and assign it to a new variable named userName" and so on. The value of userName would be the string John Doe, and the value of userAge would be the number 34.

## 13) Use Destructuring Assignment to Assign Variables from Nested Objects ##

- You can use the same principles from the previous two lessons to destructure values from nested objects.

- Using an object similar to previous examples:

```js

const user = {
  johnDoe: { 
    age: 34,
    email: 'johnDoe@freeCodeCamp.com'
  }
};

```

- Here's how to extract the values of object properties and assign them to variables with the same name:
```js

const { johnDoe: { age, email }} = user;

```
- And here's how you can assign an object properties' values to variables with different names:

```js

const { johnDoe: { age: userAge, email: userEmail }} = user;

```

## 14) Use Destructuring Assignment to Assign Variables from Arrays ##

- ES6 makes destructuring arrays as easy as destructuring objects.

- One key difference between the spread operator and array destructuring is that the spread operator unpacks all contents of an array into a comma-separated list. Consequently, you cannot pick or choose which elements you want to assign to variables.

- Destructuring an array lets us do exactly that:

```js

const [a, b] = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6];
console.log(a, b);
//The console will display the values of a and b as 1, 2.

```

- The variable a is assigned the first value of the array, and b is assigned the second value of the array. We can also access the value at any index in an array with destructuring by using commas to reach the desired index:

```js

const [a, b,,, c] = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6];
console.log(a, b, c);
//The console will display the values of a, b, and c as 1, 2, 5.

```

## 15) Use Destructuring Assignment with the Rest Parameter to Reassign Array Elements ##

- In some situations involving array destructuring, we might want to collect the rest of the elements into a separate array.

- The result is similar to Array.prototype.slice(), as shown below:

```js

const [a, b, ...arr] = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7];
console.log(a, b);
console.log(arr);
//The console would display the values 1, 2 and [3, 4, 5, 7].

```

- Variables a and b take the first and second values from the array. After that, because of the rest parameter's presence, arr gets the rest of the values in the form of an array. The rest element only works correctly as the last variable in the list. As in, you cannot use the rest parameter to catch a subarray that leaves out the last element of the original array.

## 16) Use Destructuring Assignment to Pass an Object as a Function's Parameters ##

- In some cases, you can destructure the object in a function argument itself.

- Consider the code below:

```js

const profileUpdate = (profileData) => {
  const { name, age, nationality, location } = profileData;
}

```

- This effectively destructures the object sent into the function. This can also be done in-place:

```js

const profileUpdate = ({ name, age, nationality, location }) => {
}

```

- When profileData is passed to the above function, the values are destructured from the function parameter for use within the function.


## 17) Create Strings using Template Literals ##

- A new feature of ES6 is the template literal. This is a special type of string that makes creating complex strings easier.

- Template literals allow you to create multi-line strings and to use string interpolation features to create strings.

- Consider the code below:

```js

const person = {
  name: "Zodiac Hasbro",
  age: 56
};

const greeting = `Hello, my name is ${person.name}!
I am ${person.age} years old.`;

console.log(greeting);
//The console will display the strings Hello, my name is Zodiac Hasbro! and I am 56 years old..


```


- ```A lot of things happened there. Firstly, the example uses backticks (`), not quotes (' or "), to wrap the string. Secondly, notice that the string is multi-line, both in the code and the output. This saves inserting \n within strings. The ${variable} syntax used above is a placeholder. Basically, you won't have to use concatenation with the + operator anymore. To add variables to strings, you just drop the variable in a template string and wrap it with ${ and }. Similarly, you can include other expressions in your string literal, for example ${a + b}. This new way of creating strings gives you more flexibility to create robust strings```

## 18) Write Concise Object Literal Declarations Using Object Property Shorthand ##

- ES6 adds some nice support for easily defining object literals.

- Consider the following code:

```js

const getMousePosition = (x, y) => ({
  x: x,
  y: y
});

```

- getMousePosition is a simple function that returns an object containing two properties. ES6 provides the syntactic sugar to eliminate the redundancy of having to write x: x. You can simply write x once, and it will be converted tox: x (or something equivalent) under the hood. Here is the same function from above rewritten to use this new syntax:

```js

const getMousePosition = (x, y) => ({ x, y });

```

## 19) Write Concise Declarative Functions with ES6 ##

- When defining functions within objects in ES5, we have to use the keyword function as follows:

```js

const person = {
  name: "Taylor",
  sayHello: function() {
    return `Hello! My name is ${this.name}.`;
  }
};

```


- With ES6, you can remove the function keyword and colon altogether when defining functions in objects. Here's an example of this syntax:

```js

const person = {
  name: "Taylor",
  sayHello() {
    return `Hello! My name is ${this.name}.`;
  }
}

```

## 20) Use class Syntax to Define a Constructor Function ##

- ES6 provides a new syntax to create objects, using the class keyword.

- It should be noted that the class syntax is just syntax, and not a full-fledged class-based implementation of an object-oriented paradigm, unlike in languages such as Java, Python, Ruby, etc.

- In ES5, we usually define a constructor function and use the new keyword to instantiate an object.

```js

var SpaceShuttle = function(targetPlanet){
  this.targetPlanet = targetPlanet;
}
var zeus = new SpaceShuttle('Jupiter');

```

- The class syntax simply replaces the constructor function creation:

```js

class SpaceShuttle {
  constructor(targetPlanet) {
    this.targetPlanet = targetPlanet;
  }
}
const zeus = new SpaceShuttle('Jupiter');

```

- It should be noted that the class keyword declares a new function, to which a constructor is added. This constructor is invoked when new is called to create a new object.

`Note: UpperCamelCase should be used by convention for ES6 class names, as in SpaceShuttle used above.`

- The constructor method is a special method for creating and initializing an object created with a class. You will learn more about it in the Object Oriented Programming section of the JavaScript Algorithms And Data Structures Certification.