# ES6 -  1 to 10  #
With [FreeCodeCamp](https://freecodecamp.org)
 
ECMAScript, or ES, is a standardized version of JavaScript. Because all major browsers follow this specification, the terms ECMAScript and JavaScript are interchangeable.

Most of the JavaScript you've learned up to this point was in ES5 (ECMAScript 5), which was finalized in 2009. While you can still write programs in ES5, JavaScript is constantly evolving, and new features are released every year.

ES6, released in 2015, added many powerful new features to the language. In this course, you'll learn these new features, including let and const, arrow functions, classes, promises, and modules


## 1) Explore Differences Between the var and let Keywords ##

- One of the biggest problems with declaring variables with the var keyword is that you can overwrite variable declarations without an error.

```js

var camper = 'James';
var camper = 'David';
console.log(camper);
//Here the console will display the string David.

```

- As you can see in the code above, the camper variable is originally declared as James and then overridden to be David. In a small application, you might not run into this type of problem, but when your code becomes larger, you might accidentally overwrite a variable that you did not intend to overwrite. Because this behavior does not throw an error, searching and fixing bugs becomes more difficult.

- A new keyword called let was introduced in ES6 to solve this potential issue with the var keyword. If you were to replace var with let in the variable declarations of the code above, the result would be an error.

```js

let camper = 'James';
let camper = 'David';

```

- This error can be seen in the console of your browser. So unlike var, when using let, a variable with the same name can only be declared once. Note the "use strict". This enables Strict Mode, which catches common coding mistakes and "unsafe" actions. For instance:

```js

"use strict";
x = 3.14;
//This will display an error that x is not defined

```

## 2) Compare Scopes of the var and let Keywords ##

- When you declare a variable with the var keyword, it is declared globally, or locally if declared inside a function.

- The let keyword behaves similarly, but with some extra features. When you declare a variable with the let keyword inside a block, statement, or expression, its scope is limited to that block, statement, or expression.

- For example:
```js
var numArray = [];
for (var i = 0; i < 3; i++) {
  numArray.push(i);
}
console.log(numArray);
console.log(i);
//Here the console will display the values [0, 1, 2] and 3.

```

- With the var keyword, i is declared globally. So when i++ is executed, it updates the global variable. This code is similar to the following:

```js
var numArray = [];
var i;
for (i = 0; i < 3; i++) {
  numArray.push(i);
}
console.log(numArray);
console.log(i);
//Here the console will display the values [0, 1, 2] and 3.
```

- This behavior will cause problems if you were to create a function and store it for later use inside a for loop that uses the i variable. This is because the stored function will always refer to the value of the updated global i variable.

```js
var printNumTwo;
for (var i = 0; i < 3; i++) {
  if (i === 2) {
    printNumTwo = function() {
      return i;
    };
  }
}
console.log(printNumTwo());
//Here the console will display the value 3.

```


- As you can see, printNumTwo() prints 3 and not 2. This is because the value assigned to i was updated and the printNumTwo() returns the global i and not the value i had when the function was created in the for loop. The let keyword does not follow this behavior:

```js
let printNumTwo;
for (let i = 0; i < 3; i++) {
  if (i === 2) {
    printNumTwo = function() {
      return i;
    };
  }
}
console.log(printNumTwo());
console.log(i);
//Here the console will display the value 2, and an error that i is not defined.

```

- i is not defined because it was not declared in the global scope. It is only declared within the for loop statement. printNumTwo() returned the correct value because three different i variables with unique values (0, 1, and 2) were created by the let keyword within the loop statement.

## 3) Declare a Read-Only Variable with the const Keyword ##

- The keyword let is not the only new way to declare variables. In ES6, you can also declare variables using the const keyword.

- const has all the awesome features that let has, with the added bonus that variables declared using const are read-only. They are a constant value, which means that once a variable is assigned with const, it cannot be reassigned

- trying to reassign a variable declared with const will throw an error. You should always name variables you don't want to reassign using the const keyword. This helps when you accidentally attempt to reassign a variable that is meant to stay constant. `A common practice when naming constants is to use all uppercase letters, with words separated by an underscore.`

`Note: It is common for developers to use uppercase variable identifiers for immutable values and lowercase or camelCase for mutable values (objects and arrays). In a later challenge you will see an example of a lowercase variable identifier being used for an array`

## 4) Mutate an Array Declared with const ##

- The const declaration has many use cases in modern JavaScript.

- Some developers prefer to assign all their variables using const by default, unless they know they will need to reassign the value. Only in that case, they use let.

- However, it is important to understand that objects (including arrays and functions) assigned to a variable using const are still mutable. Using the const declaration only prevents reassignment of the variable identifier.

```js

const s = [5, 6, 7];
s = [1, 2, 3];
s[2] = 45;
console.log(s);
//s = [1, 2, 3] will result in an error. The console.log will display the value [5, 6, 45].

```

- As you can see, you can mutate the object [5, 6, 7] itself and the variable s will still point to the altered array [5, 6, 45]. Like all arrays, the array elements in s are mutable, but because const was used, you cannot use the variable identifier s to point to a different array using the assignment operator.

## 5) Prevent Object Mutation ##

- As seen in the previous challenge, const declaration alone doesn't really protect your data from mutation. To ensure your data doesn't change, JavaScript provides a function Object.freeze to prevent data mutation.

- Any attempt at changing the object will be rejected, with an error thrown if the script is running in strict mode.

```js

let obj = {
  name:"FreeCodeCamp",
  review:"Awesome"
};
Object.freeze(obj);
obj.review = "bad";
obj.newProp = "Test";
console.log(obj); 
```

- The obj.review and obj.newProp assignments will result in errors, because our editor runs in strict mode by default, and the console will display the value { name: "FreeCodeCamp", review: "Awesome" }

## 6) Use Arrow Functions to Write Concise Anonymous Functions ##

- In JavaScript, we often don't need to name our functions, especially when passing a function as an argument to another function. Instead, we create inline functions. We don't need to name these functions because we do not reuse them anywhere else.

- To achieve this, we often use the following syntax:

```js

const myFunc = function() {
  const myVar = "value";
  return myVar;
}
```

- ES6 provides us with the syntactic sugar to not have to write anonymous functions this way. Instead, you can use arrow function syntax:

```js

const myFunc = () => {
  const myVar = "value";
  return myVar;
}
```

- When there is no function body, and only a return value, arrow function syntax allows you to omit the keyword return as well as the brackets surrounding the code. This helps simplify smaller functions into one-line statements:

```js

const myFunc = () => "value";

```
- This code will still return the string value by default.

## 7) Write Arrow Functions with Parameters ##

- Just like a regular function, you can pass arguments into an arrow function.

```js

const doubler = (item) => item * 2;
doubler(4);
//doubler(4) would return the value 8.

```

- If an arrow function has a single parameter, the parentheses enclosing the parameter may be omitted.

```js

const doubler = item => item * 2;

```
- It is possible to pass more than one argument into an arrow function.

```js

const multiplier = (item, multi) => item * multi;
multiplier(4, 2);
//multiplier(4, 2) would return the value 8.
```

## 8) Set Default Parameters for Your Functions ##

- In order to help us create more flexible functions, ES6 introduces default parameters for functions.

- Check out this code:

```js

const greeting = (name = "Anonymous") => "Hello " + name;
console.log(greeting("John"));
console.log(greeting());
//The console will display the strings Hello John and Hello Anonymous.

```

- The default parameter kicks in when the argument is not specified (it is undefined). As you can see in the example above, the parameter name will receive its default value Anonymous when you do not provide a value for the parameter. You can add default values for as many parameters as you want.

## 9) Use the Rest Parameter with Function Parameters ##

- In order to help us create more flexible functions, ES6 introduces the rest parameter for function parameters. With the rest parameter, you can create functions that take a variable number of arguments. These arguments are stored in an array that can be accessed later from inside the function.

- Check out this code:

```js

function howMany(...args) {
  return "You have passed " + args.length + " arguments.";
}
console.log(howMany(0, 1, 2));
console.log(howMany("string", null, [1, 2, 3], { }));

//The console would display the strings You have passed 3 arguments. and You have passed 4 arguments..

```

- The rest parameter eliminates the need to check the args array and allows us to apply map(), filter() and reduce() on the parameters array.

## 10) Use the Spread Operator to Evaluate Arrays In-Place ##

- ES6 introduces the spread operator, which allows us to expand arrays and other expressions in places where multiple parameters or elements are expected.

- The ES5 code below uses apply() to compute the maximum value in an array:

```js

var arr = [6, 89, 3, 45];
var maximus = Math.max.apply(null, arr);
//maximus would have a value of 89.

```


- We had to use `Math.max.apply(null, arr)` because `Math.max(arr)` returns NaN. `Math.max()`expects comma-separated arguments, but not an array. The spread operator makes this syntax much better to read and maintain.

```js

const arr = [6, 89, 3, 45];
const maximus = Math.max(...arr);
//maximus would have a value of 89.

```

- ...arr returns an unpacked array. In other words, it spreads the array. However, the spread operator only works in-place, like in an argument to a function or in an array literal. The following code will not work:

```js

const spreaded = ...arr;

```
