# Object Oriented Programming - 14 to 26

With [FreeCodeCamp](https://freecodecamp.org)

## 14) Remember to Set the Constructor Property when Changing the Prototype

- There is one crucial side effect of manually setting the prototype to a new object. It erases the constructor property! This property can be used to check which constructor function created the instance, but since the property has been overwritten, it now gives false results:

```js
duck.constructor === Bird;
duck.constructor === Object;
duck instanceof Bird;
// In order, these expressions would evaluate to false, true, and true.
```

- To fix this, whenever a prototype is manually set to a new object, remember to define the constructor property:

```js
Bird.prototype = {
  constructor: Bird,
  numLegs: 2,
  eat: function () {
    console.log("nom nom nom");
  },
  describe: function () {
    console.log("My name is " + this.name);
  },
};
```

## 15) Understand Where an Object’s Prototype Comes From

- Just like people inherit genes from their parents, an object inherits its prototype directly from the constructor function that created it. For example, here the Bird constructor creates the duck object:

```js
function Bird(name) {
  this.name = name;
}

let duck = new Bird("Donald");
```

- duck inherits its prototype from the Bird constructor function. You can show this relationship with the isPrototypeOf method:

```js
Bird.prototype.isPrototypeOf(duck);
// This would return true.
```

## 16) Understand the Prototype Chain

- All objects in JavaScript (with a few exceptions) have a prototype. Also, an object’s prototype itself is an object.

```js
function Bird(name) {
  this.name = name;
}

typeof Bird.prototype;
```

- Because a prototype is an object, a prototype can have its own prototype! In this case, the prototype of Bird.prototype is Object.prototype:

```js
Object.prototype.isPrototypeOf(Bird.prototype);
```

- How is this useful? You may recall the hasOwnProperty method from a previous challenge:

```js
let duck = new Bird("Donald");
duck.hasOwnProperty("name");
```

- The hasOwnProperty method is defined in Object.prototype, which can be accessed by Bird.prototype, which can then be accessed by duck. This is an example of the prototype chain. In this prototype chain, Bird is the supertype for duck, while duck is the subtype. Object is a supertype for both Bird and duck. Object is a supertype for all objects in JavaScript. Therefore, any object can use the hasOwnProperty method.

## 17) Use Inheritance So You Don't Repeat Yourself

- There's a principle in programming called Don't Repeat Yourself (DRY). The reason repeated code is a problem is because any change requires fixing code in multiple places. This usually means more work for programmers and more room for errors.

- Notice in the example below that the describe method is shared by Bird and Dog:

```js
Bird.prototype = {
  constructor: Bird,
  describe: function () {
    console.log("My name is " + this.name);
  },
};

Dog.prototype = {
  constructor: Dog,
  describe: function () {
    console.log("My name is " + this.name);
  },
};
```

- The describe method is repeated in two places. The code can be edited to follow the DRY principle by creating a supertype (or parent) called Animal:

```js
function Animal() {}

Animal.prototype = {
  constructor: Animal,
  describe: function () {
    console.log("My name is " + this.name);
  },
};
```

- Since Animal includes the describe method, you can remove it from Bird and Dog:

```js
Bird.prototype = {
  constructor: Bird,
};

Dog.prototype = {
  constructor: Dog,
};
```

## 18) Inherit Behaviors from a Supertype

- In the previous challenge, you created a supertype called Animal that defined behaviors shared by all animals:

```js
function Animal() {}
Animal.prototype.eat = function () {
  console.log("nom nom nom");
};
```

- This and the next challenge will cover how to reuse the methods of Animal inside Bird and Dog without defining them again. It uses a technique called inheritance. This challenge covers the first step: make an instance of the supertype (or parent). You already know one way to create an instance of Animal using the new operator:

```js
let animal = new Animal();
```

- There are some disadvantages when using this syntax for inheritance, which are too complex for the scope of this challenge. Instead, here's an alternative approach without those disadvantages:

```js
let animal = Object.create(Animal.prototype);
```

- Object.create(obj) creates a new object, and sets obj as the new object's prototype. Recall that the prototype is like the "recipe" for creating an object. By setting the prototype of animal to be the prototype of Animal, you are effectively giving the animal instance the same "recipe" as any other instance of Animal.

```js
animal.eat();
animal instanceof Animal;
// The instanceof method here would return true.
```

## 19) Set the Child's Prototype to an Instance of the Parent

- In the previous challenge you saw the first step for inheriting behavior from the supertype (or parent) Animal: making a new instance of Animal.

- This challenge covers the next step: set the prototype of the subtype (or child)—in this case, Bird—to be an instance of Animal.

```js
Bird.prototype = Object.create(Animal.prototype);
```

- Remember that the prototype is like the "recipe" for creating an object. In a way, the recipe for Bird now includes all the key "ingredients" from Animal.

```js
let duck = new Bird("Donald");
duck.eat();
// duck inherits all of Animal's properties, including the eat method.
```

## 20) Reset an Inherited Constructor Property

- When an object inherits its prototype from another object, it also inherits the supertype's constructor property.

- Here's an example:

```js
function Bird() {}
Bird.prototype = Object.create(Animal.prototype);
let duck = new Bird();
duck.constructor;
```

- But duck and all instances of Bird should show that they were constructed by Bird and not Animal. To do so, you can manually set the constructor property of Bird to the Bird object:

```js
Bird.prototype.constructor = Bird;
duck.constructor;
```

## 21) Add Methods After Inheritance

- A constructor function that inherits its prototype object from a supertype constructor function can still have its own methods in addition to inherited methods.

- For example, Bird is a constructor that inherits its prototype from Animal:

```js
function Animal() {}
Animal.prototype.eat = function () {
  console.log("nom nom nom");
};
function Bird() {}
Bird.prototype = Object.create(Animal.prototype);
Bird.prototype.constructor = Bird;
```

- In addition to what is inherited from Animal, you want to add behavior that is unique to Bird objects. Here, Bird will get a fly() function. Functions are added to Bird's prototype the same way as any constructor function:

```js
Bird.prototype.fly = function () {
  console.log("I'm flying!");
};
```

- Now instances of Bird will have both eat() and fly() methods:

```js
let duck = new Bird();
duck.eat();
duck.fly();
// duck.eat() would display the string nom nom nom in the console, and duck.fly() would display the string I'm flying!.
```

## 22) Override Inherited Methods

- In previous lessons, you learned that an object can inherit its behavior (methods) from another object by referencing its prototype object:

```js
ChildObject.prototype = Object.create(ParentObject.prototype);
```

- Then the ChildObject received its own methods by chaining them onto its prototype:

```js
ChildObject.prototype.methodName = function() {...};
```

- It's possible to override an inherited method. It's done the same way - by adding a method to ChildObject.prototype using the same method name as the one to override. Here's an example of Bird overriding the eat() method inherited from Animal:

```js
function Animal() {}
Animal.prototype.eat = function () {
  return "nom nom nom";
};
function Bird() {}

Bird.prototype = Object.create(Animal.prototype);

Bird.prototype.eat = function () {
  return "peck peck peck";
};
```

- If you have an instance let duck = new Bird(); and you call duck.eat(), this is how JavaScript looks for the method on the prototype chain of duck:

  - duck => Is eat() defined here? No.
  - Bird => Is eat() defined here? => Yes. Execute it and stop searching.
  - Animal => eat() is also defined, but JavaScript stopped searching before reaching this level.
  - Object => JavaScript stopped searching before reaching this level.

## 23) Use a Mixin to Add Common Behavior Between Unrelated Objects

- As you have seen, behavior is shared through inheritance. However, there are cases when inheritance is not the best solution. Inheritance does not work well for unrelated objects like Bird and Airplane. They can both fly, but a Bird is not a type of Airplane and vice versa.

- For unrelated objects, it's better to use mixins. A mixin allows other objects to use a collection of functions.

```js
let flyMixin = function (obj) {
  obj.fly = function () {
    console.log("Flying, wooosh!");
  };
};
```

- The flyMixin takes any object and gives it the fly method.

```js
let bird = {
  name: "Donald",
  numLegs: 2,
};

let plane = {
  model: "777",
  numPassengers: 524,
};

flyMixin(bird);
flyMixin(plane);
```

- Here bird and plane are passed into flyMixin, which then assigns the fly function to each object. Now bird and plane can both fly:

```js
bird.fly();
plane.fly();
// The console would display the string Flying, wooosh! twice, once for each .fly() call.
```

- Note how the mixin allows for the same fly method to be reused by unrelated objects bird and plane.

## 24) Use Closure to Protect Properties Within an Object from Being Modified Externally

- In the previous challenge, bird had a public property name. It is considered public because it can be accessed and changed outside of bird's definition.

```js
bird.name = "Duffy";
```

- Therefore, any part of your code can easily change the name of bird to any value. Think about things like passwords and bank accounts being easily changeable by any part of your codebase. That could cause a lot of issues.

- The simplest way to make this public property private is by creating a variable within the constructor function. This changes the scope of that variable to be within the constructor function versus available globally. This way, the variable can only be accessed and changed by methods also within the constructor function.

```js
function Bird() {
  let hatchedEgg = 10;

  this.getHatchedEggCount = function () {
    return hatchedEgg;
  };
}
let ducky = new Bird();
ducky.getHatchedEggCount();
```

- Here getHatchedEggCount is a privileged method, because it has access to the private variable hatchedEgg. This is possible because hatchedEgg is declared in the same context as getHatchedEggCount. In JavaScript, a function always has access to the context in which it was created. This is called closure.

## 25) Understand the Immediately Invoked Function Expression (IIFE)

- A common pattern in JavaScript is to execute a function as soon as it is declared:

```js
(function () {
  console.log("Chirp, chirp!");
})();
```

- This is an anonymous function expression that executes right away, and outputs Chirp, chirp! immediately.

- Note that the function has no name and is not stored in a variable. The two parentheses () at the end of the function expression cause it to be immediately executed or invoked. This pattern is known as an immediately invoked function expression or IIFE

## 26) Use an IIFE to Create a Module

- An immediately invoked function expression (IIFE) is often used to group related functionality into a single object or module. For example, an earlier challenge defined two mixins:

```js
function glideMixin(obj) {
  obj.glide = function () {
    console.log("Gliding on the water");
  };
}
function flyMixin(obj) {
  obj.fly = function () {
    console.log("Flying, wooosh!");
  };
}
```

- We can group these mixins into a module as follows:

```js
let motionModule = (function () {
  return {
    glideMixin: function (obj) {
      obj.glide = function () {
        console.log("Gliding on the water");
      };
    },
    flyMixin: function (obj) {
      obj.fly = function () {
        console.log("Flying, wooosh!");
      };
    },
  };
})();
```

- Note that you have an immediately invoked function expression (IIFE) that returns an object motionModule. This returned object contains all of the mixin behaviors as properties of the object. The advantage of the module pattern is that all of the motion behaviors can be packaged into a single object that can then be used by other parts of your code. Here is an example using it:

```js
motionModule.glideMixin(duck);
duck.glide();
```
