# Basic Data Structure - 11 to 20

With [FreeCodeCamp](https://freecodecamp.org)

## 11) Iterate Through All an Array's Items Using For Loops

- Sometimes when working with arrays, it is very handy to be able to iterate through each item to find one or more elements that we might need, or to manipulate an array based on which data items meet a certain set of criteria. JavaScript offers several built in methods that each iterate over arrays in slightly different ways to achieve different results (such as every(), forEach(), map(), etc.), however the technique which is most flexible and offers us the greatest amount of control is a simple for loop.

- Consider the following:

```js
function greaterThanTen(arr) {
  let newArr = [];
  for (let i = 0; i < arr.length; i++) {
    if (arr[i] > 10) {
      newArr.push(arr[i]);
    }
  }
  return newArr;
}
greaterThanTen([2, 12, 8, 14, 80, 0, 1]);
```

- Using a for loop, this function iterates through and accesses each element of the array, and subjects it to a simple test that we have created. In this way, we have easily and programmatically determined which data items are greater than 10, and returned a new array, [12, 14, 80], containing those items

## 12) Create complex multi-dimensional arrays

- Awesome! You have just learned a ton about arrays! This has been a fairly high level overview, and there is plenty more to learn about working with arrays, much of which you will see in later sections. But before moving on to looking at Objects, lets take one more look, and see how arrays can become a bit more complex than what we have seen in previous challenges.

- One of the most powerful features when thinking of arrays as data structures, is that arrays can contain, or even be completely made up of other arrays. We have seen arrays that contain arrays in previous challenges, but fairly simple ones. However, arrays can contain an infinite depth of arrays that can contain other arrays, each with their own arbitrary levels of depth, and so on. In this way, an array can very quickly become very complex data structure, known as a multi-dimensional, or nested array. Consider the following example:

```js
let nestedArray = [
  ["deep"],
  [["deeper"], ["deeper"]],
  [[["deepest"], ["deepest"]], [[["deepest-est?"]]]],
];
//The deep array is nested 2 levels deep. The deeper arrays are 3 levels deep. The deepest arrays are 4 levels, and the deepest-est? is 5.
```

- While this example may seem convoluted, this level of complexity is not unheard of, or even unusual, when dealing with large amounts of data. However, we can still very easily access the deepest levels of an array this complex with bracket notation:

```js
console.log(nestedArray[2][1][0][0][0]);
```

- This logs the string deepest-est?. And now that we know where that piece of data is, we can reset it if we need to:

```js
nestedArray[2][1][0][0][0] = "deeper still";

console.log(nestedArray[2][1][0][0][0]);
//Now it logs deeper still.
```

## 13) Add Key-Value Pairs to JavaScript Objects

- At their most basic, objects are just collections of key-value pairs. In other words, they are pieces of data (values) mapped to unique identifiers called properties (keys). Take a look at an example:

```js
const tekkenCharacter = {
  player: "Hwoarang",
  fightingStyle: "Tae Kwon Doe",
  human: true,
};
```

- The above code defines a Tekken video game character object called tekkenCharacter. It has three properties, each of which map to a specific value. If you want to add an additional property, such as "origin", it can be done by assigning origin to the object:

```js
tekkenCharacter.origin = "South Korea";
```

- This uses dot notation. If you were to observe the tekkenCharacter object, it will now include the origin property. Hwoarang also had distinct orange hair. You can add this property with bracket notation by doing:

```js
tekkenCharacter["hair color"] = "dyed orange";
```

- Bracket notation is required if your property has a space in it or if you want to use a variable to name the property. In the above case, the property is enclosed in quotes to denote it as a string and will be added exactly as shown. Without quotes, it will be evaluated as a variable and the name of the property will be whatever value the variable is. Here's an example with a variable:

```js
const eyes = "eye color";

tekkenCharacter[eyes] = "brown";
```

- After adding all the examples, the object will look like this:

```js
{
  player: 'Hwoarang',
  fightingStyle: 'Tae Kwon Doe',
  human: true,
  origin: 'South Korea',
  'hair color': 'dyed orange',
  'eye color': 'brown'
};
```

## 14) Modify an Object Nested Within an Object

- Now let's take a look at a slightly more complex object. Object properties can be nested to an arbitrary depth, and their values can be any type of data supported by JavaScript, including arrays and even other objects. Consider the following:

```js
let nestedObject = {
  id: 28802695164,
  date: "December 31, 2016",
  data: {
    totalUsers: 99,
    online: 80,
    onlineStatus: {
      active: 67,
      away: 13,
      busy: 8,
    },
  },
};
```

- nestedObject has three properties: id (value is a number), date (value is a string), and data (value is an object with its nested structure). While structures can quickly become complex, we can still use the same notations to access the information we need. To assign the value 10 to the busy property of the nested onlineStatus object, we use dot notation to reference the property:

```js
nestedObject.data.onlineStatus.busy = 10;
```

## 15) Access Property Names with Bracket Notation

- In the first object challenge we mentioned the use of bracket notation as a way to access property values using the evaluation of a variable. For instance, imagine that our foods object is being used in a program for a supermarket cash register. We have some function that sets the selectedFood and we want to check our foods object for the presence of that food. This might look like:

```js
let selectedFood = getCurrentFood(scannedItem);
let inventory = foods[selectedFood];
```

- This code will evaluate the value stored in the selectedFood variable and return the value of that key in the foods object, or undefined if it is not present. Bracket notation is very useful because sometimes object properties are not known before runtime or we need to access them in a more dynamic way

## 16) Use the delete Keyword to Remove Object Properties

- Now you know what objects are and their basic features and advantages. In short, they are key-value stores which provide a flexible, intuitive way to structure data, and, they provide very fast lookup time. Throughout the rest of these challenges, we will describe several common operations you can perform on objects so you can become comfortable applying these useful data structures in your programs.

- In earlier challenges, we have both added to and modified an object's key-value pairs. Here we will see how we can remove a key-value pair from an object.

- Let's revisit our foods object example one last time. If we wanted to remove the apples key, we can remove it by using the delete keyword like this:

```js
delete foods.apples;
```

## 17) Check if an Object has a Property

Now we can add, modify, and remove keys from objects. But what if we just wanted to know if an object has a specific property? JavaScript provides us with two different ways to do this. One uses the hasOwnProperty() method and the other uses the in keyword. If we have an object users with a property of Alan, we could check for its presence in either of the following ways:

```js
users.hasOwnProperty("Alan");
"Alan" in users;
//Both of these would return true
```

## 18) Iterate Through the Keys of an Object with a for...in Statement

- Sometimes you may need to iterate through all the keys within an object. This requires a specific syntax in JavaScript called a for...in statement. For our users object, this could look like:

```js
for (let user in users) {
  console.log(user);
}
//This would log Alan, Jeff, Sarah, and Ryan - each value on its own line.
```

- In this statement, we defined a variable user, and as you can see, this variable was reset during each iteration to each of the object's keys as the statement looped through the object, resulting in each user's name being printed to the console.

`NOTE: Objects do not maintain an ordering to stored keys like arrays do; thus a key's position on an object, or the relative order in which it appears, is irrelevant when referencing or accessing that key.`

## 19) Generate an Array of All Object Keys with Object.keys()

- We can also generate an array which contains all the keys stored in an object using the Object.keys() method and passing in an object as the argument. This will return an array with strings representing each property in the object. Again, there will be no specific order to the entries in the array.

## 20) Modify an Array Stored in an Object

- Now you've seen all the basic operations for JavaScript objects. You can add, modify, and remove key-value pairs, check if keys exist, and iterate over all the keys in an object. As you continue learning JavaScript you will see even more versatile applications of objects. Additionally, the Data Structures lessons located in the Coding Interview Prep section of the curriculum also cover the ES6 Map and Set objects, both of which are similar to ordinary objects but provide some additional features. Now that you've learned the basics of arrays and objects, you're fully prepared to begin tackling more complex problems using JavaScript!
